Touhou Tool Kit User Documentation
  This package provides four tools for editing the content
of the games in the Touhou series of games.

- Tool Descriptions
  A description of the tools and their commands:

- - thanm
  thanm performs actions on animation (.anm) files stored
in the game archives.
  The following commands are available:
- - - List
  The listing command displays all the non-image information
in the animation archive, this includes sprite rectangles,
animation scripts, and various image-related data.
  Example:
$ thanm l input.anm > output.txt
- - - Extract
  The extraction command extracts image files from the
animation archives.
  These images are converted to the PNG image format.
  Extraction can be limited to only certain files by listing
their paths after the archive.
  Examples:
$ thanm x input.anm
$ thanm x input.anm input/file3.png
- - - Create
  The creation command constructs a new animation archive
from a descriptor file (these can be obtained from the
listing command) and a number of image files.
  The image files will have to be stored relative to the
place of command execution, using the paths specified in the
descriptor file.
  Example:
$ thanm c output.anm input.txt
- - - Replace
  The replacement command allows one to replace the image
data stored in an archive with other image data.
  Example:
$ thanm r archive.anm archive/file.png input.png

- - thdat
  thdat can unpack and repack game archives.
  For these commands the game version must be specified,
unless the default (the latest supported game) is desired.
  The following commands are available:
- - - Extract
  The extraction command extracts all files in the archive
to the current directory.
  Extraction can be limited to only certain files by listing
their paths after the archive.
  Examples:
$ thdat x10 input.dat
$ thdat x5 input.dat file1.msg
- - - Create
  The creation command creates a new archive from the
specified files.
  Example:
$ thdat c125 output.dat input1.anm input2.ecl

- - thecl
  thecl performs actions on the level scripts included with
the games.
  The following commands are available:
- - - Dump
  The dumping command parses the specified script file and
generates a human-readable representation of its contents.
  The game version must be specified when using this
commmand.
  The actual syntax of the output is not currently
documented.
  Example:
$ thecl d128 input.ecl output.ecs
- - - Create
  The creation command compiles the specified file into a
new script file.
  The actual syntax of the input is not currently
documented, but it will take the output from the dumping
command.
  Example:
$ thecl c input.ecs output.ecl
- - - Raw Dump
  The raw dumping command can be of use when figuring out
new commands in future versions of the game engines by
performing an unformatted dump of the specified script.
  Note that this command will only work as long as the basic
file format is the same.
  Example:
$ thecl r input.ecl output.txt
- - - Generate Parameter Table
  The parameter table generation command can be of use when
figuring out new commands in future versions of the game
engines by presenting a table of all used commands in the
specified script along with their guessed parameter lists.
  Note that this command will only work as long as the basic
file format is the same.
  Example:
$ thecl p input.ecl output.txt

- - thmsg
  thmsg reads and writes files containing dialogue data.
- - - Dump
  This command writes the instructions contained in the
script to a human-readable file.
$ thmsg d6 input.dat output.txt
- - - Create
  The counterpart to the dump command.
  Example:
$ thmsg c6 input.txt output.dat

- Supported Games

  This table displays which of the main actions are
supported for each game.

Action   1 2 3 4 5 6 7 75 8 9 95 10 105 11 12 123 125 128
thanm x  - - - - - - y  - y y  y  y   -  y  y   -   y   y
thanm l  - - - - - y y  - y y  y  y   -  y  y   -   y   y
thdat x  y y y y y y y  n y y  y  y   n  y  y   n   y   y
thdat c  y y y y y y y  n y y  y  y   n  y  y   n   y   y
thecl d  - - - - - n n  - n n  y  y   -  y  y   -   y   y
thecl c  - - - - - n n  - n n  y  y   -  y  y   -   y   y
thmsg d  - - - - - y y  - y y  y  y   -  y  y   -   y   y
thmsg c  - - - - - y y  - y y  y  y   -  y  y   -   y   y
